README.md, before:

# Agent Loop

Scaffolding tool and templates for multi-agent development workflows. `agl` generates loop directories, fills template placeholders, and runs agents via `agw`. Language-agnostic and platform-agnostic (works with Claude, Codex, Gemini, etc.).

---

## Quick Start

```bash
# Bootstrap (from repo checkout)
./deploy.sh

# Ensure work/agent-loop/ is in .gitignore
echo "work/agent-loop/" >> .gitignore

# Start a loop (creates worktree + branch)
cd ~/your-project
agl init add-auth --plan work/wip/task-1.md

# Run the worker agent
agl work claude
agl commit

# Enhance
agl enhance claude
agl commit

# Review (read-only)
agl review --files "src/auth.rs, src/middleware.rs"

# Fix
agl fix claude
agl commit

# Squash-merge into the current branch
agl merge add-auth --agent claude

# Or abandon the work
agl drop add-auth
```

`agl` scaffolds prompts and runs agents via `agw` in an isolated git worktree. Commands like `agl work`, `agl enhance claude`, and `agl fix claude` invoke `agw` directly. Without an agent name, `agl enhance`, `agl review`, and `agl fix` print the command for manual execution. `agl merge` opens the normal commit editor by default; pass `--agent` to draft a commit message and open `git commit -e -F` with that draft. `agl drop` removes the worktree and branch without merging.

---

## `agl` CLI

### Commands

```
agl init <feature-slug> --plan <path>   Create worktree, branch, and worker prompt
agl work <agent>                        Run agent with the most recent prompt
agl commit                              Stage and commit changes in the worktree
agl enhance [<agent>]                   Generate enhancer prompt (optionally run agent)
agl review [<agent>]                    Generate reviewer prompt (optionally run agent)
agl fix [<agent>]                       Generate fixer prompt (optionally run agent)
agl merge [<slug>]                      Squash-merge with manual commit message
agl merge [<slug>] --agent <agent> [...] Squash-merge with agent-drafted message
agl drop [<slug>]                       Remove worktree and branch (abandon work)
```

### Init Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--plan <path>` | Path to the plan file (required) |
| `--task <text>` | Task description (default: Implement the feature according to the plan.) |
| `--context <paths>` | Additional context paths (default: None) |

### Work Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `<agent> [flags...]` | Agent name and flags (passed through to agw) |

### Commit Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |

### Enhance Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--context <paths>` | Additional context paths |
| `--commits <hashes>` | Relevant commit hashes |
| `--instructions <text>` | Additional instructions |
| `[<agent> [flags...]]` | Run agent after scaffolding (flags pass through to agw) |

### Review Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--files <paths>` | File paths to review |
| `--context <paths>` | Additional context paths |
| `--commits <hashes>` | Relevant commit hashes |
| `--checklist <text>` | Review checklist |
| `[<agent> [flags...]]` | Run agent after scaffolding (flags pass through to agw) |

### Fix Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--context <paths>` | Additional context paths |
| `[<agent> [flags...]]` | Run agent after scaffolding (flags pass through to agw) |

### Merge Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `[<slug>]` | Feature slug to merge (default: most recent loop) |
| `--agent <agent> [...]` | Agent name and flags for commit-message drafting; place `--dir`/`--no-delete` before `--agent`, and pass all agent flags after `--agent <agent>` |
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--no-delete` | Preserve worktree and branch after merge |

### Drop Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `[<slug>]` | Feature slug to drop (default: most recent loop) |
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--all` | Also remove the loop directory (prompts, output, context) |

### Worktree Workflow

`agl init` creates a loop directory at `work/agent-loop/<timestamp>-<slug>/` in the primary tree with a git worktree at `<loop_dir>/worktree/` on a dedicated branch `agl/<slug>`. All agent work happens in this isolated checkout. The lifecycle is:

1. **`agl init <slug>`** — creates loop directory, branch, worktree, and worker prompt
2. **`agl work <agent>`** — runs the agent with the most recent prompt in the worktree
3. **`agl commit`** — stages all changes and commits with a mechanical message (e.g. `agl: add-auth worker`)
4. **`agl enhance <agent>`**, **`agl review`**, **`agl fix <agent>`** — scaffold prompts and optionally run agents
5. **`agl merge`** — squash-merges the worktree branch and opens the commit editor for a manual message; with `--agent`, it writes `context/squash-diff.patch`, runs a commit-writer prompt, and opens `git commit -e -F` with the draft before cleanup
6. **`agl drop`** — removes the worktree and branch without merging (abandon work); with `--all`, also removes the loop directory

This keeps agent changes isolated from unrelated work, makes intermediate commits mechanical, and produces a single squash commit with a meaningful message at the end.

### Round Numbering

The review-fix loop tracks rounds automatically. Round 1 files are named normally. Round 2+ get `-r2`, `-r3` suffixes:

```
prompts/03-reviewer.md      # round 1
prompts/04-fixer.md         # round 1
prompts/03-reviewer-r2.md   # round 2
prompts/04-fixer-r2.md      # round 2
```

The round counter increments each time `agl fix` is called.

### Context Snapshotting

`agl init`, `agl enhance`, `agl review`, and `agl fix` copy any `--context` files into a `context/` directory inside the loop. `agl init` also copies the plan file. All prompts reference these local copies, making loop directories self-contained records of the work.

```bash
agl init add-auth --plan work/wip/task-1.md --context "docs/spec.md, docs/design.md"
```

This creates:
```
context/
├── plan.md       # copy of work/wip/task-1.md
├── spec.md       # copy of docs/spec.md
└── design.md     # copy of docs/design.md
```

If two `--context` files share the same basename, the second gets a `-2` suffix (e.g. `spec.md` and `spec-2.md`).

---

## Workflow Patterns

### Pattern A: Worker -> Reviewer -> Fixer Loop

```
Worker ──────> Reviewer ──────> Fixer
  └─ self-review    │ ^          └─ self-review
                    │ └──────────┘
                    │
                  Approved
```

1. Worker implements according to plan (spawns self-review sub-agent)
2. Reviewer (interactive) analyzes and writes findings to disk
3. If changes required: Fixer addresses findings (spawns self-review sub-agent)
4. Back to Reviewer for re-review
5. Repeat until approved

### Pattern B: Worker -> Enhancer -> Reviewer -> Fixer Loop

```
Worker ──> Enhancer ──> Reviewer ──> Fixer
  └─ self     └─ self        │ ^      └─ self-review
   review      review        │ └──────┘
                             │
                           Approved
```

1. Worker implements according to plan (spawns self-review sub-agent)
2. Enhancer makes surgical improvements (spawns self-review sub-agent)
3. Reviewer (interactive) analyzes and writes findings to disk
4. If changes required: Fixer addresses findings (spawns self-review sub-agent)
5. Back to Reviewer for re-review
6. Repeat until approved

---

## Template Placeholders

All templates use `{{PLACEHOLDER}}` syntax. `agl` fills these automatically:

| Placeholder | Auto-filled | Source |
|-------------|-------------|--------|
| `{{DATE}}` | Yes | `date +%Y-%m-%d` |
| `{{FEATURE_SLUG}}` | Yes | User provides as arg to `init` |
| `{{FEATURE_NAME}}` | Yes | Derived from slug |
| `{{PLAN_PATH}}` | Yes | Local copy in `context/` (snapshotted from `--plan`) |
| `{{OUTPUT_DIR}}` | Yes | Loop's `output/` directory |
| `{{HANDOFF_PATH}}` | Yes | Computed from output dir |
| `{{HANDOFF_PATHS}}` | Yes | Computed from what exists in output dir |
| `{{REVIEW_PATH}}` | Yes | Latest review file in output dir |
| `{{TASK_DESCRIPTION}}` | Yes | Default from plan path, or `--task` flag |
| `{{OTHER_CONTEXT}}` | Flag | `--context` (init snapshots to `context/`), default "None" |
| `{{COMMIT_HASHES}}` | Auto/Flag | Tracked commits from `.agl`, or `--commits` override |
| `{{FILE_PATHS}}` | Flag | `--files`, default "None" |
| `{{REVIEW_CHECKLIST}}` | Flag | `--checklist`, default "None" |
| `{{ADDITIONAL_INSTRUCTIONS}}` | Flag | `--instructions`, default "None" |
| `{{SQUASH_DIFF_PATH}}` | Yes (merge draft) | Staged squash diff written to `context/squash-diff.patch` |
| `{{COMMIT_MESSAGE_PATH}}` | Yes (merge draft) | Draft file written by commit-writer agent |

---

## Output Locations

Each loop creates a timestamped directory in the primary tree under `work/agent-loop/`:

```
work/agent-loop/
└── 2026-02-17-142533-add-auth/
    ├── .agl                   # metadata (slug, plan, date, round, branch, worktree, etc.)
    ├── context/
    │   ├── plan.md            # snapshot of --plan file
    │   ├── design.md          # snapshot of --context files
    │   └── squash-diff.patch  # staged squash diff for commit drafting
    ├── prompts/
    │   ├── 01-worker.md
    │   ├── 02-enhancer.md
    │   ├── 03-reviewer.md
    │   ├── 04-fixer.md
    │   ├── 05-commit-writer.md
    │   ├── 03-reviewer-r2.md  # round 2
    │   └── 04-fixer-r2.md     # round 2
    ├── output/
    │   ├── HANDOFF-add-auth.md
    │   ├── ENHANCE-add-auth.md
    │   ├── REVIEW-add-auth.md
    │   ├── FIX-add-auth.md
    │   ├── COMMIT_MESSAGE-add-auth.txt
    │   ├── REVIEW-r2-add-auth.md
    │   └── FIX-r2-add-auth.md
    └── worktree/              # git worktree (isolated checkout on agl/add-auth branch)
```

The `work/agent-loop/` directory must be in `.gitignore`.

### `.agl` Metadata

Each loop directory contains a `.agl` file with `KEY=value` metadata:

```
FEATURE_SLUG=add-auth
PLAN_PATH=work/agent-loop/2026-02-17-142533-add-auth/context/plan.md
DATE=2026-02-17
ROUND=1
BRANCH=agl/add-auth
WORKTREE=work/agent-loop/2026-02-17-142533-add-auth/worktree
MAIN_ROOT=/abs/path/to/project
LAST_STAGE=worker
COMMITS=a1b2c3, d4e5f6
```

---

## Role Discipline

The templates enforce strict role boundaries:

| Role | Mode | Edits Files | Primary Output |
|------|------|-------------|----------------|
| Worker | Read-Write | Yes | Code + Handoff Report |
| Enhancer | Read-Write (surgical) | Yes, minimally | Code Changes + Change Summary |
| Reviewer | **Read-Only** | **No (except findings report)** | Findings Report |
| Fixer | Read-Write (scoped) | Yes, scoped to findings | Code Changes + Fix Report |

### Why Strict Boundaries?

1. **Reviewers fixing code** breaks the feedback loop - issues get silently "fixed" without the worker learning
2. **Enhancers rewriting code** undoes carefully considered implementations
3. **Workers deviating from plans** creates drift between intent and implementation

---

## Deployment

### Initial Setup

```bash
git clone <repo-url> ~/dev/bash/agent-loop
cd ~/dev/bash/agent-loop
./deploy.sh
```

This deploys:
- `bin/agl.sh` -> `~/bin/agl`
- `bin/agl-deploy.sh` -> `~/bin/agl-deploy`
- `templates/*.md` -> `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/templates/`
- Creates `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/deploy.toml` if it doesn't exist

### Updates

After setting your PAT in `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/deploy.toml`:

```bash
agl-deploy
```

This clones the latest from GitHub and redeploys everything.

Commit message:

feat(init): support external worktree root
Place git worktrees outside the repository tree to prevent
upward-discovery re-rooting during self-hosting. The loop
directory (prompts, output, context) stays in-repo; only
the worktree moves to a configurable external base.

Configuration:
- `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/agl.toml` `[worktree].base`
- `--worktree-base <path>` flag on `agl init`
- `AGL_WORKTREE_BASE` environment variable
- `deploy.sh` and `bin/agl-deploy.sh` seed
  `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/agl.toml` with the default
  worktree base on fresh installs
 - Precedence: CLI > env > config > internal (fallback)

Safety and validation:
- Replace `require_safe_worktree_relpath` with dual-mode
  `require_safe_worktree_path` reading WORKTREE_MODE and
  WORKTREE_BASE from `.agl` only
- Factor `require_repo_membership` into a shared helper
  called from `run_agent`, `cmd_commit`, and `cmd_merge`
- Reject worktree bases under MAIN_ROOT
- Mode-aware cleanup in `cleanup_init_artifacts`

Command updates:
- Split `find_loop_dir` into `find_loop_dir_with_worktree`
  and `find_loop_dir_any` for live vs cleanup commands
- `cmd_commit`, `cmd_merge`, `cmd_drop` use
  `resolve_worktree_abs` for absolute path resolution
- `print_commands` handles absolute worktree paths
- `.agl` stores WORKTREE_MODE and WORKTREE_BASE for
  external loops

Documentation:
- Position external worktrees as the default, internal as
  fallback throughout README, ai_development_guide, usage
  help, and code comments
- Show framework level in layout examples and `.agl` samples

README.md, after:

# Agent Loop

Scaffolding tool and templates for multi-agent development workflows. `agl` generates loop directories, fills template placeholders, and runs agents via `agw`. Language-agnostic and platform-agnostic (works with Claude, Codex, Gemini, etc.).

---

## Quick Start

```bash
# Bootstrap (from repo checkout)
./deploy.sh

# Ensure work/agent-loop/ is in .gitignore
echo "work/agent-loop/" >> .gitignore

# Start a loop (creates worktree + branch)
cd ~/your-project
agl init add-auth --plan work/wip/task-1.md

# Run the worker agent
agl work claude
agl commit

# Enhance
agl enhance claude
agl commit

# Review (read-only)
agl review --files "src/auth.rs, src/middleware.rs"

# Fix
agl fix claude
agl commit

# Squash-merge into the current branch
agl merge add-auth --agent claude

# Or abandon the work
agl drop add-auth
```

`agl` scaffolds prompts and runs agents via `agw` in an isolated git worktree. Commands like `agl work`, `agl enhance claude`, and `agl fix claude` invoke `agw` directly. Without an agent name, `agl enhance`, `agl review`, and `agl fix` print the command for manual execution. `agl merge` opens the normal commit editor by default; pass `--agent` to draft a commit message and open `git commit -e -F` with that draft. `agl drop` removes the worktree and branch without merging.

---

## `agl` CLI

### Commands

```
agl init <feature-slug> --plan <path>   Create worktree, branch, and worker prompt
agl work <agent>                        Run agent with the most recent prompt
agl commit                              Stage and commit changes in the worktree
agl enhance [<agent>]                   Generate enhancer prompt (optionally run agent)
agl review [<agent>]                    Generate reviewer prompt (optionally run agent)
agl fix [<agent>]                       Generate fixer prompt (optionally run agent)
agl merge [<slug>]                      Squash-merge with manual commit message
agl merge [<slug>] --agent <agent> [...] Squash-merge with agent-drafted message
agl drop [<slug>]                       Remove worktree and branch (abandon work)
```

### Init Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--plan <path>` | Path to the plan file (required) |
| `--task <text>` | Task description (default: Implement the feature according to the plan.) |
| `--context <paths>` | Additional context paths (default: None) |
| `--worktree-base <path>` | Worktree base directory (overrides env/config) |

### Work Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `<agent> [flags...]` | Agent name and flags (passed through to agw) |

### Commit Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |

### Enhance Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--context <paths>` | Additional context paths |
| `--commits <hashes>` | Relevant commit hashes |
| `--instructions <text>` | Additional instructions |
| `[<agent> [flags...]]` | Run agent after scaffolding (flags pass through to agw) |

### Review Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--files <paths>` | File paths to review |
| `--context <paths>` | Additional context paths |
| `--commits <hashes>` | Relevant commit hashes |
| `--checklist <text>` | Review checklist |
| `[<agent> [flags...]]` | Run agent after scaffolding (flags pass through to agw) |

### Fix Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--context <paths>` | Additional context paths |
| `[<agent> [flags...]]` | Run agent after scaffolding (flags pass through to agw) |

### Merge Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `[<slug>]` | Feature slug to merge (default: most recent loop) |
| `--agent <agent> [...]` | Agent name and flags for commit-message drafting; place `--dir`/`--no-delete` before `--agent`, and pass all agent flags after `--agent <agent>` |
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--no-delete` | Preserve worktree and branch after merge |

### Drop Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `[<slug>]` | Feature slug to drop (default: most recent loop) |
| `--dir <path>` | Loop directory (default: most recent) |
| `--all` | Also remove the loop directory (prompts, output, context) |

### Worktree Workflow

`agl init` creates a loop directory at `work/agent-loop/<timestamp>-<slug>/` in the primary tree with a git worktree on a dedicated branch `agl/<slug>`. The worktree is created outside the repository at `<base>/<framework>/<project>/<timestamp>-<slug>/worktree`, which prevents upward directory discovery from re-rooting into the primary checkout. The bootstrap process (`deploy.sh`) seeds `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/agl.toml` with a default worktree base, so worktrees work out of the box. The base can also be set via `--worktree-base` or `AGL_WORKTREE_BASE`. If no worktree base is configured at all (config removed, no env, no flag), `agl` falls back to an internal worktree at `<loop_dir>/worktree/`. The loop directory (prompts, output, context) always remains in-repo. The lifecycle is:

1. **`agl init <slug>`** — creates loop directory, branch, worktree, and worker prompt
2. **`agl work <agent>`** — runs the agent with the most recent prompt in the worktree
3. **`agl commit`** — stages all changes and commits with a mechanical message (e.g. `agl: add-auth worker`)
4. **`agl enhance <agent>`**, **`agl review`**, **`agl fix <agent>`** — scaffold prompts and optionally run agents
5. **`agl merge`** — squash-merges the worktree branch and opens the commit editor for a manual message; with `--agent`, it writes `context/squash-diff.patch`, runs a commit-writer prompt, and opens `git commit -e -F` with the draft before cleanup
6. **`agl drop`** — removes the worktree and branch without merging (abandon work); with `--all`, also removes the loop directory

This keeps agent changes isolated from unrelated work, makes intermediate commits mechanical, and produces a single squash commit with a meaningful message at the end.

### Round Numbering

The review-fix loop tracks rounds automatically. Round 1 files are named normally. Round 2+ get `-r2`, `-r3` suffixes:

```
prompts/03-reviewer.md      # round 1
prompts/04-fixer.md         # round 1
prompts/03-reviewer-r2.md   # round 2
prompts/04-fixer-r2.md      # round 2
```

The round counter increments each time `agl fix` is called.

### Context Snapshotting

`agl init`, `agl enhance`, `agl review`, and `agl fix` copy any `--context` files into a `context/` directory inside the loop. `agl init` also copies the plan file. All prompts reference these local copies, making loop directories self-contained records of the work.

```bash
agl init add-auth --plan work/wip/task-1.md --context "docs/spec.md, docs/design.md"
```

This creates:
```
context/
├── plan.md       # copy of work/wip/task-1.md
├── spec.md       # copy of docs/spec.md
└── design.md     # copy of docs/design.md
```

If two `--context` files share the same basename, the second gets a `-2` suffix (e.g. `spec.md` and `spec-2.md`).

---

## Workflow Patterns

### Pattern A: Worker -> Reviewer -> Fixer Loop

```
Worker ──────> Reviewer ──────> Fixer
  └─ self-review    │ ^          └─ self-review
                    │ └──────────┘
                    │
                  Approved
```

1. Worker implements according to plan (spawns self-review sub-agent)
2. Reviewer (interactive) analyzes and writes findings to disk
3. If changes required: Fixer addresses findings (spawns self-review sub-agent)
4. Back to Reviewer for re-review
5. Repeat until approved

### Pattern B: Worker -> Enhancer -> Reviewer -> Fixer Loop

```
Worker ──> Enhancer ──> Reviewer ──> Fixer
  └─ self     └─ self        │ ^      └─ self-review
   review      review        │ └──────┘
                             │
                           Approved
```

1. Worker implements according to plan (spawns self-review sub-agent)
2. Enhancer makes surgical improvements (spawns self-review sub-agent)
3. Reviewer (interactive) analyzes and writes findings to disk
4. If changes required: Fixer addresses findings (spawns self-review sub-agent)
5. Back to Reviewer for re-review
6. Repeat until approved

---

## Template Placeholders

All templates use `{{PLACEHOLDER}}` syntax. `agl` fills these automatically:

| Placeholder | Auto-filled | Source |
|-------------|-------------|--------|
| `{{DATE}}` | Yes | `date +%Y-%m-%d` |
| `{{FEATURE_SLUG}}` | Yes | User provides as arg to `init` |
| `{{FEATURE_NAME}}` | Yes | Derived from slug |
| `{{PLAN_PATH}}` | Yes | Local copy in `context/` (snapshotted from `--plan`) |
| `{{OUTPUT_DIR}}` | Yes | Loop's `output/` directory |
| `{{HANDOFF_PATH}}` | Yes | Computed from output dir |
| `{{HANDOFF_PATHS}}` | Yes | Computed from what exists in output dir |
| `{{REVIEW_PATH}}` | Yes | Latest review file in output dir |
| `{{TASK_DESCRIPTION}}` | Yes | Default from plan path, or `--task` flag |
| `{{OTHER_CONTEXT}}` | Flag | `--context` (init snapshots to `context/`), default "None" |
| `{{COMMIT_HASHES}}` | Auto/Flag | Tracked commits from `.agl`, or `--commits` override |
| `{{FILE_PATHS}}` | Flag | `--files`, default "None" |
| `{{REVIEW_CHECKLIST}}` | Flag | `--checklist`, default "None" |
| `{{ADDITIONAL_INSTRUCTIONS}}` | Flag | `--instructions`, default "None" |
| `{{SQUASH_DIFF_PATH}}` | Yes (merge draft) | Staged squash diff written to `context/squash-diff.patch` |
| `{{COMMIT_MESSAGE_PATH}}` | Yes (merge draft) | Draft file written by commit-writer agent |

---

## Output Locations

Each loop creates a timestamped directory in the primary tree under `work/agent-loop/`:

```
work/agent-loop/
└── 2026-02-17-142533-add-auth/
    ├── .agl                   # metadata (slug, plan, date, round, branch, worktree, etc.)
    ├── context/
    │   ├── plan.md            # snapshot of --plan file
    │   ├── design.md          # snapshot of --context files
    │   └── squash-diff.patch  # staged squash diff for commit drafting
    ├── prompts/
    │   ├── 01-worker.md
    │   ├── 02-enhancer.md
    │   ├── 03-reviewer.md
    │   ├── 04-fixer.md
    │   ├── 05-commit-writer.md
    │   ├── 03-reviewer-r2.md  # round 2
    │   └── 04-fixer-r2.md     # round 2
    ├── output/
    │   ├── HANDOFF-add-auth.md
    │   ├── ENHANCE-add-auth.md
    │   ├── REVIEW-add-auth.md
    │   ├── FIX-add-auth.md
    │   ├── COMMIT_MESSAGE-add-auth.txt
    │   ├── REVIEW-r2-add-auth.md
    │   └── FIX-r2-add-auth.md
    └── worktree/              # git worktree (only present in internal fallback mode)
```

Normally, the worktree lives outside the repo under the configured base directory:

```
~/dev/worktrees/
└── bash/
    └── my-project/
        └── 2026-02-17-142533-add-auth/
            └── worktree/      # git worktree (default layout)
```

The `<framework>` level (e.g. `bash`) is derived from the repo's parent directory name. If the repo parent is an ancestor of the worktree base (e.g. repo at `~/dev/myproject` with base `~/dev/worktrees`), the framework falls back to `etc`. The `work/agent-loop/` directory must be in `.gitignore`.

### `.agl` Metadata

Each loop directory contains a `.agl` file with `KEY=value` metadata:

```
FEATURE_SLUG=add-auth
PLAN_PATH=work/agent-loop/2026-02-17-142533-add-auth/context/plan.md
DATE=2026-02-17
ROUND=1
BRANCH=agl/add-auth
WORKTREE=/home/user/dev/worktrees/bash/project/2026-02-17-142533-add-auth/worktree
WORKTREE_MODE=external
WORKTREE_BASE=/home/user/dev/worktrees
MAIN_ROOT=/abs/path/to/project
LAST_STAGE=worker
COMMITS=a1b2c3, d4e5f6
```

In internal fallback mode (no worktree base configured), `WORKTREE` is a relative path and the mode/base fields are absent:

```
WORKTREE=work/agent-loop/2026-02-17-142533-add-auth/worktree
```

---

## Role Discipline

The templates enforce strict role boundaries:

| Role | Mode | Edits Files | Primary Output |
|------|------|-------------|----------------|
| Worker | Read-Write | Yes | Code + Handoff Report |
| Enhancer | Read-Write (surgical) | Yes, minimally | Code Changes + Change Summary |
| Reviewer | **Read-Only** | **No (except findings report)** | Findings Report |
| Fixer | Read-Write (scoped) | Yes, scoped to findings | Code Changes + Fix Report |

### Why Strict Boundaries?

1. **Reviewers fixing code** breaks the feedback loop - issues get silently "fixed" without the worker learning
2. **Enhancers rewriting code** undoes carefully considered implementations
3. **Workers deviating from plans** creates drift between intent and implementation

---

## Deployment

### Initial Setup

```bash
git clone <repo-url> ~/dev/bash/agent-loop
cd ~/dev/bash/agent-loop
./deploy.sh
```

This deploys:
- `bin/agl.sh` -> `~/bin/agl`
- `bin/agl-deploy.sh` -> `~/bin/agl-deploy`
- `templates/*.md` -> `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/templates/`
- Creates `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/deploy.toml` if it doesn't exist
- Creates `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/agl.toml` if it doesn't exist (sets default worktree base)

### Updates

After setting your PAT in `~/.config/solt/agent-loop/deploy.toml`:

```bash
agl-deploy
```

This clones the latest from GitHub and redeploys everything.
